so good morning
my legal name is jessica but a lot of
people call me jake
today i'm telling y'all about the
vipenerium and everything that we have
built for it so far
the vibenarium is a collaborative
decentralized social network
i'm a 2d 3d animator and audio engineer
and i am amazed of all the open source
ecosystems that have been made possible
in a large part by version control
systems
every day i use the most awe-inspiring
open source software and some of the
best software in the film industry in
general is open source
and still productions i'm not they're
among the most centralized projects
owned by a room full of people
i want to change that and with the
vibenarium i want to offer everyone
access to the tools
project planning and processing
capabilities that make for the
foundation of every major game and film
production studio
a platform can be used for any digital
media creation related activity
i have a background in educational
software as well so i also want to make
this a fun learning experience and a
playground for people who are
discovering the creation and
distribution of digital media together
i'm a peer-to-peer activist
some decided that i want to make this
happen open source
and most of all free
so what do we need to make this happen
collaborators
collaborators are going to want to talk
and have video conferences so we need a
messenger
the projects are going to be open source
so we'll need moderation
for that we picked ipfs popsup
it's reliable for small teams fast and
secure we invented an encryption scheme
and authentication scheme the channel
name is comprised of different public
keys
owned by the creator or owner of a
channel in simple terms
the owner keeps a participant list and
removing people
from channels is as easy as that the
owner removes a participant
sends a message to the participants
using the easy public key in the channel
name
the participants have the ability to
verify the signatures on the updated
participant list if the signature
validates
the participants update their
participant list it's the same mechanism
when joining a channel
we're using invite codes and the channel
owner verifies them
now it may be possible that someone
launches a directed attack against a
project
in this case the owner has the ability
to simply change the keys
and change the channel name and move
everyone eventually i would like to have
this owner become a virtual role
that's represented by results of quorum
queries
but there is no limitations we're not
syncing the history yet and it's very
obviously alpha software
so we needed something else we were
undecided about creating a farm
architecture like reddit or discussed
first
or what we were going to do most of our
communication is on video chat
so we decided to go with a twitter clan
it's a simple little module
you can post stuff you can reply to
posts everything you know from twitter
we're using the ipfs dac api for this
and we're simply sharing
encrypted credentials for the latest
stack note on someone's timeline
every timeline on our system is a dac of
posts and action notes
a lot of like the recent activities on
github
so using this we were able to schedule
calls have asynchronous discussion and
leave offline messages
but what else do we need
so what we're building next is the
foundation for our asset library
a decentralized package manager on ipfs
and we're building an ethereum based
incentive structure similar to gitcon
items in the library can be shared and
sold on the network and people can offer
premium and custom variations of assets
that they're
hosting on ipfs it's the core of the
quest network
since there's a crazy amount of
applications for the social networking
part of it alone
with since there's a crazy amount of
applications for the social networking
part of it alone we're currently
building out a social
networking framework for this the quest
network it's a generic social network on
ipfs
on which people can use the chat feeds
marketplace and
gaming app store to exchange services
and products of all kinds
we have chosen angular and electron as
an example environment because we
believe it offers the best accessibility
for beginners
and developers coming from other
languages and frameworks
the quest network is already being used
in python on pi qd5
and we aim to provide the underlying
library and go and wherever possible in
rust as well
our example app can be built for every
major operating system
and runs seamlessly in the browser
directly from ipfs
i'm the lead maintainer of a render farm
so when we fork into the vibinarium oh
yeah unfortunately i didn't skip
through the slides fastened
i'm the lead maintainer of a render farm
so when we fork into the vibrarium
we also want to offer decentralized
processing capabilities this allows
teams to use their processing power for
rendering scenes and assets
additional computing power can be bought
on market and added to a project in two
clicks
i'm also working on an ffmpeg web
assembly based online video and audio
sequencer and eventually we'd love to
offer
as many useful tools as we can
so much about the internalities now i
would like to take a few minutes to talk
about the founders and our greater
vision
so who are we we're an international
team of artists
creators and engineers and we believe
that games
movies shows and documentaries should
all be open
i'd like to especially thank japan
molinar
and jennifer sizer and steiner badari
for the contributions and their work for
the quest network
yeah that's it please consider
supporting us we're always looking for
help
buy us a coffee and we love to build a
non-profit for this project
if you know anything about that and you
can help
sure we're happy to
be helped thank you for your time